---
layout: post
title: Summer of Bitcoin 2023 Week 1 and 2
tags: [Summer of Bitcoin, Bitcoin]
image: https://psycho-pirate.github.io/assets/img/bitcoin/btclogo.png
share-img: https://psycho-pirate.github.io/assets/img/bitcoin/btclogo.png
---

The results of **Summer of Bitcoin** were declared the previous week and I am really excited to announce that my proposal was accepted by LDK. I will be continuing the project which I started last year titled **Integrating LDK into the Lnprototest test suite**	

# About the Project
This project aims at Integrating LDK into the Lnprototest test suite and ensuring that this lightning implementation follows all the BOLT protocols.

## Progress made during Summer of Bitcoin 2022
* Implementing `features.rs` in **LDK-Sample**. This file simply displays the features of **LDK-Sample** node. These features are then used by the `ldk.py` script inside **Lnprototest**.
* Adding an exit function in **LDK-Sample**. Having an exit function ensures that the port used by **LDK-Sample** is unoccupied after the node is exited and can be used for other purposes.
* Implementing `myKeysManager` struct in **LDK-Sample**. This struct manages the node secrets and uses a `key_seed` to generate different keys. The advantage of using this instead of the default `KeysManager` is that it allows me to use my own set of channel secrets(funding_key, revocation_base_key, payment_key, delayed_payment_base_key, htlc_base_key) instead of the randomly generated ones. This was useful for setting up the configuration required by **Lnprototest**.
* Implementing `KeysInterface` trait for the `myKeysManager` struct. This was essential for `myKeysManager` as it has a lot of useful methods.
* Implementing `openchannel_test` method in **LDK-Sample**. This method allows opening a fundchannel without providing the host or port.
* Adding the `ldk.py` script inside **Lnprototest**. This script does all the heavy lifting in the integration process.
* Implementing the `LDKConn` class inside the script. This class is used to connect to the node using `pyln.proto.wire` module and intercept all the messages that the node initiates and receives.
* Implementing the `LDK Runner` class. This class contains all the functions used to start/stop bitcoind, start/stop **LDK-Sample** node, adding a connection, connecting to a peer, carrying out transactions, receiving output messages etc. The tests are run against this class and it basically tells the node to do a particular task(like connecting to a peer) and the `LDKConn` class intercepts the messages sent by the node.

# Week 1 and 2

I started working on the project and discovered that both LDK-Sample and Lnprototest repos were updated. On updating my forks, I found out that LDK-Sample now uses Lightning crate version `0.0.115` instead of `0.0.108`. This meant that I had to make a lot of changes to make it work. This involved:
* Removing `features.rs` as the `Features::known()` method was deprecated. After discussion with the devs, I am now using `lightning_msg_handler.chan_handler.provided_init_features()` method to display the features.
* Reimplementing `myKeysManager` as a lot of traits and methods changed. 
* Implementing various methods and structs as a lot of methods used in `KeysManager` were private.

After all the bugs from my LDK-Sample were removed and my custom channel secrets were added, LDK-Sample was built and it ran successfully.

I then started the testing phase. The bug I had opened last year in Lnprototest was fixed by Vincenzo.
After encountering some minor errors and tweaking some things in my LDK script, I was able to pass all the BOLT #1 tests. These included:
* test_namespace_override
* test_echo_init
* test_init_check_received_msg
* test_init_invalid_globalfeatures
* test_init_is_first_msg
* test_init_check_free_featurebits
* test_init_fail_connection_if_receive_an_even_unknown_featurebits
* test_init_fail_connection_if_receive_an_even_unknown_globalfeaturebits
* test_init_fail_ask_for_option_data_loss_protect
* test_init_advertize_option_data_loss_protect
* test_init_required_option_data_loss_protect
* test_init_reject_option_data_loss_protect_if_not_supported
* test_init_advertize_option_anchor_outputs
* test_init_required_option_anchor_outputs
* test_init_advertize_option_static_remotekey
* test_unknowns
<br>

Now I will start working on the BOLT2 tests.